Accolades & Commentary
“I find myself awake in the middle of the night trying to decide which to worry
about more, our democracy or our planet, when both are existential to my
grandchildren. It is astounding that we, as the human species, are in this
precarious place. And then I speak to the grounding human force that is Aaron
Perry, and I’m at least temporarily comforted. Then for long-term comfort, I
pick up his book, Our Biggest Deal, and read the amazing authors and study
the amazing companies featured and I become completely energized to pick
up the sword again!”
—Ken LaRoe, Founder & Chairman,
Climate First Bank
“I don’t believe we will ever make a serious effort to saving our home planet
from all its threats until we humans adopt a spiritual connection to the nat-
ural world. Saving indigenous cultures and working and learning from them
would be a good start.”
—Yvon Chouinard, Founder,
Patagonia (for Dilafruz Khonikboyeva’s essay)
“Now more than ever, we need imagination as a force for systems change and
planetary healing. The stories and frameworks in Our Biggest Deal bring that
force vividly to life.”
—Samantha Power, Founder,
BioFi Bio-Regional Finance
“Our Biggest Deal reads like an operator’s manual for prosperity that lasts.
Perry replaces vague intent with measurable pathways—financeable, buildable,
repeatable. For investors, policymakers, and builders who want returns and
regeneration to be the same plan, not competing goals.”
—Paul Kevin Kennon, AIA, Founder & CEO,
Beyond Zero Luxury Wilderness Resorts
“Tackling the multitude of crises facing the Earth and humanity at this pivotal
moment in history demands the ability to illuminate, hold, and weave the

complexities of the situation with keen intelligence, systems thinking, pioneer-
ing vision, and deep humility. Aaron, alongside brilliant thought leaders from
the regenerative living and finance sectors, presents one of the strongest cases
yet—backed by real-world examples—on why choosing this path for humanity
is not only profoundly wise but existentially essential. May we cultivate the
wisdom to follow the sage advice so beautifully shared within these pages.”
—Kirsten Liegmann, CEO,
RegenEarth Studio
“We are in a time of profound transformation, analogous to the caterpillar
becoming the butterfly. May we choose to step into our brilliance, deeply
connect with one another and the earth, share our gifts, and co-create the
conditions for regeneration and prosperity. I am inspired by the thought
leaders featured in this book and grateful to Aaron for bringing an expanded
awareness of this great and necessary work to the world.”
—Jason Knoll, CEO,
Savory Institute
“They want us to believe our only option is a take, make, use, waste economy
that promotes a lack and scarcity mindset, where I cannot get mine if you
get yours. This is simply not true. The abundance of human potential is more
powerful than any probability we can chart on a spreadsheet. Our Biggest Deal,
the ethos behind it, tangible solutions highlighted, and the powerful voices
woven throughout, offer a pathway to shared prosperity on a healthy planet.”
—Brenna St. Onge, Founder & CEO,
Regenerative World Quest and B the Light Consulting
“The future of our shared home is fast approaching an inflection point that will
determine whether millions of species—the human race included—can long
endure the damage the tragedy of the commons and free riding have done. The
choice that faces us now is both moral and practical: we can change the way
we live, or we can perish. Our Biggest Deal advances a cogent apology of the
former, and existence proofs of how we might avoid the latter. An important
book at a critical time.”
—Robert Swigert,
Founder, Goodstead

“Our Biggest Deal is inspiring, eloquent, well-reasoned, visionary, bold (the “greed
is good” Friedman takedown), occasionally sly (rocket erections), eye-opening,
magnetic, clarifying, prophetic, educational, and is a substantial contribution
to our emerging global egregore for planetary prosperity.”
—Verona Rylander,
Verona Rylander Philanthropies
“Leading purpose-driven companies at the intersection of hospitality, finance,
and sustainability has shown me that optimism needs to be paired with direction
if we want real change. In Our Biggest Deal, Aaron Perry offers both—inviting
us into a shared vision of practical pathways toward a future where people,
planet, and prosperity truly align.”
—Jared Meyers, Founder & CEO,
Legacy Vacation Resorts and CO Hospitality
“We are at a critical moment in which we need to re-align our culture, our
systems of value, and intention for living, to that of the life-affirming world
from which we came and still exist within. It is a process of constant refine-
ment, a tight rope walk between the actually-feasible and the not-yet-possible,
and will take wisdom spanning from The Art of War to Siddhartha Gautama.
Those stewarding most of the wisdom are often farthest from the position to
apply it at scale. Bridging these worlds with loving humility and collectively
consenting to join Team Life is what is being asked of us. How will you answer?”
—Will Peterffy, Founder & CEO,
One Small Planet (for OSP’s Case Study Vignette)
“When the headwinds to planetary prosperity seem more entangled and con-
voluted than ever, we may find hope here in Our Biggest Deal. Aaron Perry, in
sophisticated and knowledgeable fashion, deploys relatable wisdom by relaying
references and examples which span across all cultures, philosophies and theol-
ogies. Our Biggest Deal delivers optimism and answers, and most importantly,
a roadmap to direct our desire and intentions in solving our current economic
and environmental polycrises.”
—Brad “Lights Out” Lidge, MLB World Series Champion,
Brad & Lindsay Lidge Foundation

OUR BIGGEST DEAL
Pathways to Planetary Prosperity

OUR BIGGEST DEAL
Pathways to Planetary Prosperity
Regenerative Finance, Quintenary Economics,
and the Emerging Earth Steward Aristocracy
Aaron William Perry
Foreword by John Fullerton
VIP Guest Essays from Leading Global Voices

Copyright © 2025 by Aaron William Perry
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored, or transmitted in
any form or by any means without written permission of the publisher or author, except in the
case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles and reviews.
Earth Water Press
PO Box 2333
Boulder, CO 80306
Earth Water Press is a social enterprise in the Y on Earth Community family of companies.
For more information or to contact the author about booking talks, workshops, or bulk orders
of this book, visit www.yonearth.org.
Edited: David Aretha and Amina Alieva, Clean Edits
Cover Design: Jake Welsh Graphic Design
Interior design: Second Star Publishing Works
ISBN: 978-1-7347229-9-4 (paperback)
ISBN: 978-1-7347229-8-7 (ebook)
Library of Congress Control Number: 2025946658
Perry, Aaron William.
Our Biggest Deal : pathways to planetary prosperity / by Aaron William Perry ; foreword by
John Fullerton. — Colorado : Earth Water Press, 2025.
478 pages : illustrations ; 24 cm.
ISBN 978-1-7347229-9-4 (pbk.) — ISBN 978-1-7347229-8-7 (epub)
1. Sustainable development. 2. Environmental economics. 3. Economic policy—Environmental
aspects. 4. Money—Moral and ethical aspects. 5. Finance—Environmental aspects. I. Title.
HC79.E5 P47 2025
338.9—dc23
Printed in the United States of America

Dedicated To
Bernard Lietaer, Wangari Maathai, William Irwin Thompson, Hazel
Henderson, Thich Nhat Hanh, Kevin Townley, Scott Pittman, Arne Ness,
Donella Meadows, Masaru Emoto, Joanna Macy, Bill Mollison, Masanobu
Fukuoka, Peter Tompkins, Marija Gimbutas, Alan Watts, Hermann Hesse,
Joachim-Ernst Berendt, Buckminster Fuller, Rudolf Steiner, Djwhal Khul,
Teilhard de Chardin, Viktor Schauberger, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe,
Francis of Assisi, Deganawida, Hildegard von Bingen, the Grandmothers
Councils, Sibyls, Hiereia, Temple Priestesses, and Magu Miko Mystery
Maenads healing humanity’s nature-disconnection maladies throughout
time, and all of the other heart-centered cultural giants of the near and
distant past upon whose shoulders we now joyfully and courageously stand
with gratitude.
To all of us alive today who are purposefully working toward planetary
prosperity.
To our children and children’s children, and seven generations to come
thereafter.
To all of our relations: the green ones of the viriditas, the winged and
soaring ones, the two-leggeds, four-leggeds, six-leggeds, eight-leggeds, and
centipedal, the cephalopods, the swimming, the serpentine, the devata,
the water, fire, wind, and soil beings, the sky and thunder beings, and the
unfathomably manifold great star beings and star nations watching over
our humble evolutionary journey here on our home planet: the sublimely
beautiful Mama Gaia.
And, of course, to the “old-school” economists—bless their hearts, ftknwtd.

“When a complex system is far from equilibrium, small islands of
coherence in a sea of chaos have the capacity to shift the entire
system to a higher order.”
— LLYA PRIGOGINE, NOBEL LAUREATE
“We do not need to invent sustainable human communities.
We can learn from societies that have lived sustainably for centuries.
We can also model communities after nature’s ecosystems, which are
sustainable communities of plants, animals, and microorganisms.
Since the outstanding characteristic of the biosphere is its inherent ability
to sustain life, a sustainable human community must be designed in such
a manner that its technologies and social institutions honor, support, and
cooperate with nature’s inherent ability to sustain life.”
—FRITJOF CAPRA

CONTENTS
Project Sponsors xxv
Foreword xix
Introduction 1
PART I STRUCTURES AND STRATEGIES FOR PLANETARY PROSPERITY 9
1 Our Biggest Question 11
From Polycrisis to Planetary Prosperity?
2 Our Biggest Deal 14
The Great Work Before Us
3 Eyes Wide Open 22
A Global Perspective on Where We Each Stand
4 The Body Corporate 29
Governance, Guardrails, and Waterfalls
5 Enter The Quintenary 48
Alchemizing the New Ecocene Economic Paradigm
6 The Ecology of Competitive Advantage and Market Demand 54
Scaling Ecocene Economics
7 Mycelial Models and Inspired Innovations 59
The Future is Already Here
8 The Future of Money 64
Bernard Lietaer’s Visionary Wayshowing
9 The Original Instructions and Grandmothers Councils 72
Ancient Codes of Sacred Circumscription
10 Our Inner Work 79
Source Key to True Wealth and Liberation
11 Stewardship Philanthropy 88
At the Heart of the Magnamic
xiii

xiv | OUR BIGGEST DEAL
12 The New Earth Steward Aristocracy 97
Stewardship Philanthropy, Ikigai, and Deep Leadership
13 Our Shared Vision 101
Together Toward Planetary Prosperity
PART II VIP GUEST ESSAYS: VOICES OF GLOBAL LEADERS 107
About the Authors 108
1 John Perkins 121
“Life Economy vs. Death Economy”
2 Dilafruz Khonikboyeva 126
“Philanthropy Unusual: Nature as the Original Technical Solution”
3 Mark Finser 133
“The Leadership Imperative: A Special Role of High-Net-Worth Families”
4 Dr. Riane Eisler 137
“Toward a Caring and Partnership Economy: Beyond Capitalism
and Socialism”
5 Dr. Robert Cloninger 150
“What Makes People Healthy,Happy, and Fulfilled in the Face of Current
World Challenges”
6 Sarah Arao 158
“Service Leadership, Self-Care, and Global Collaboration”
7 Kate Williams 161
“Leading Regeneration: The Shortest Route is Not a Straight Line”
8 Tom Chi 166
“Plenty of Room in the Middle”
9 Jack Wielebinski 170
“Climate Missive from One Small Planet”
10 Samantha Power 175
“Biofi: Catalyzing an Economic and Financial Revolution”
11 Dr. Stephanie Gripne 184
“Main Street 2.0: Reimagining Capital for Community Transformation”

| xv
12 Azuraye Wycoff 189
“‘White Holes’ of Hyper-Local Regeneration: From Concept to
Feeding Community”
13 Eduardo Esparza 195
“From Risk to Regeneration: Bioregional Investing & Financing Our Future”
14 Georgia Kelly 199
“On Mondragon: The Ethics and Values of Cooperative Culture in the
Basque Region of Spain”
15 Hannah Odell 211
“A View from the Top of the Philanthropy Pyramid”
16 Dr. Jandel Allen-Davis 224
“Do You Know Whom You Serve? Leadership Lessons Honed at the
Feet of My Patients.”
17 Steve Farrell 241
“The Dawn of a Conscious Business Movement”
18 John Rogers 249
“Mixed Tables & Renaissance Teams: Igniting Group Genius”
19 Miranda Clendening 254
“The Mycelial Model for Planetary Prosperity: Community Mobilization,
Global Connectivity, and Technological Amplification”
20 Alena Maslova 260
“Building A ‘Meta-Industrial’ Future Together”
21 L. Hunter Lovins & Dr. Martin Frick 272
“COPx: The People’s Climate Community: We Can Solve the
Climate Crisis and Rebuild Democracy”
22 Henry Mitchell 279
“Planning and Preparedness for Community Resilience”
23 John P. Milton 285
“The Sacred View of Mother Gaia”
24 Maria Rodale 290
“Love, Nature, Women: How to Build a Regenerative Economy”

xvi | OUR BIGGEST DEAL
25 Kevin Townley and Aaron Perry 296
“The Alchemy of Money for a Coming New Age”
26 Kawenniiosta Jock 302
“The Liberation of a Mother Expressing Peace to Her Children and All
Creation Has the Ability to Transform the World Around Us;
That Is the Law of the Land”
PART III CASE STUDY VIGNETTES 305
1 1% for the Planet 307
2 Allianz Global Insurance 309
3 Amalgamated Bank 310
4 At One Ventures 311
5 B Lab 312
6 Big Path Capital 313
7 Bluestone Life 314
8 Capital Institute 316
9 Climate First Bank 318
10 COPx 320
11 Dr Bronner’s 322
12 EarthX & E-Capital Summit 324
13 Empowerment Institute 325
14 Equal Exchange Cooperative 326
15 Global Alliance for Banking on Values 327
16 GLS Bank 328
17 Goodstead Co. 329
18 Home Planet Fund 330
19 Impact Finance Center 331
20 International Cooperative Alliance 332
21 Mondragon Cooperatives 333
22 Newman’s Own Organics 335
23 One Small Planet 336
24 Organic Valley Coop 338

| xvii
25 Patagonia & Hold Fast Collective 339
26 Recreational Equipment Inc. 340
27 RSF | Regenerative Social Finance 341
28 Savory Institute 342
29 Slow Money Institute 344
30 TED 345
31 Transition Networks International 347
32 Unify 348
33 Zingerman’s 350
34 Additional Companies and Networks of Note 352
PART IV APHORISTIC A-MUSINGS 355
1 On Aphorisms 357
2 List of Aphoristic Amusings 359
3 Part One—Business and Economics 364
4 Part Two—Culture and Society 390
5 Part Three—Deep Leadership and True Freedom 405
PART V SYSTEMS CHANGE FRAMEWORKS AND 417
BEST PRACTICES CHECKLISTS
1 Sustainable Development Goals 419
2 Inner Development Goals 420
3 Regenerative Development Frameworks 421
4 Leverage Points: Places to Intervene in a System 422
5 Individual Best Practices Checklist 424
6 Corporate Best Practices Checklist 428
7 Declaration of Interdependence 430
Acknowledgments 437
References 441

xviii | OUR BIGGEST DEAL
TABLE OF FIGURES
Compassion, Community, Capital 12
The Global Wealth Pyramid(s) 24
Global Wealth Quartiles (& Stratospheric Tail) 28
Cash Flow Waterfalls 38
Mycelial Model Patterns 39
Social Enterprise Ecosystem—A Model for Replication & Scaling 40
Quintenary & Quaternary Economics Diagrams 51
Iceberg Model for Systems Change 52
Pentalpha Molecular Geometry 53
New York City—from Horses to Automobiles in One Decade 55
A Virtuous Cycle—Preference, Profit, Prominence 56
Venus Flower Geometry 69
Dollar Bill Symbolry 69
Maslow’s Hierarchy (Early Career Version—5 Levels) 85
Maslow’s Hierarchy (Mature Career Version—6 Levels) 85
Cliffs & Hospitals—Upstream Philanthropy vs. Downstream Triage 92
Ikigai 99

PROJECT SPONSORS
A very special thank you to the companies, philanthropists, and families who
helped to underwrite this book project and the many ancillary and related
programs of the Y on Earth Community. To learn more about these compa-
nies and their offerings, please visit yonearth.org/partners-supporters, and
the websites below:
Husch Blackwell The Riverside
huschblackwell.com boulderriverside.com
Launch Legal
techlawstartup.com
Earth Coast Productions Climate First Bank
earthcoast.com climatefirstbank.com
Y on Earth Community Gaia AI Home Planet Fund
yonearth.org gaiaai.xyz homeplanetfund.org
Goodstead Financial Verona Rylander Philanthropies and Art
goodstead.co veronarylander.com
Dobrosphera Kind Media
kindmedia.group
Wele Waters
Clean Edits
welewaters.com
cleanedits.com
Regenerative World Quest andCO Hospitality Bluestone Life Insurance
regenerativeworldquest.org andco.earth bluestonelife.com

FOREWORD
John Fullerton is Founder and President of the Capital Institute, and
is the author of Regenerative Capitalism and Regenerative Economics
(forthcoming).
S
ince you are holding this book in your hands, it’s safe to assume you are not
asleep, nor in denial about the challenges confronting humanity. The West-
ern presumption of perpetual progress has come into question, except among
madmen, extreme techno-optimists, or of course, most traditional economists.
The institutional scaffolding of modernity is creaking of its own insufficiencies
to meet the present context. It is also under intentional assault. And the grossest
injustice of all? The nearly half of humanity that struggle for their daily meals
and didn’t create the crisis are the first to be suffering its consequences. That
suffering is here and accelerating; no one is immune.
We are not accustomed to thinking about our place in the long sweep of
history. We naturally assume the future will arrive generally as a linear exten-
sion of the present and recent past. Our culture has narrowed our awareness
to years and election cycles, to quarterly earnings, or now to the number of
likes on a tweet. But of course, this is not how life evolves. Instead, it has been
marked by upheavals and sudden, epic, and at times catastrophic events that
change the course of history. Sometimes these events are war, sometimes
plagues, sometimes natural events like floods. And often such upheavals are
caused by technological innovation such as the arrival of the printing press,
the steam engine, or the microchip.
In a world of immense complexity, it’s generally a fool’s errand to make
predictions. But I feel safe making this one: We are not living through an era
of change, we are living through a change in era.
Pause here a moment to contemplate that context as you pick up this hope-
ful book of wise counsel and collective heroic action, which offers a peak into
xxi

xxii | OUR BIGGEST DEAL
this new era. The journey to the new era in front of us is a metamorphosis.
We don’t yet know completely or with certainty what the butterfly looks like,
but we perhaps have glimpses. Aaron William Perry uniquely weaves together
the “group genius” of myriad voices and experts whose diverse perspectives
give us more glimpses, helping us better understand the multi-dimensional
aspects of our global challenges and fresh insights illuminating some of the
many pathways available to us.
Part 1 offers thirteen chapters written by Perry that will help you to rapidly
orient around some of the most salient and essential framing ideas that should
be understood as foundational for all change-makers seeking to grasp the scope
and scale of the transformation ahead. This collection builds on Perry’s previous
books Y on Earth and Viriditas, cementing him as one of our inspirational
and rare transdisciplinary thinkers helping us find our way through these
unprecedented times. Following Perry’s insights and novel philosophical con-
cepts, all rooted in ecosystemic intelligence, we are treated to a series of guest
essays including from many of my colleagues and teachers. We then explore
through a series of case studies many of the important emergent green shoots
of a regenerative economy—some of which are already operating at substantial
scale. Finally, Perry returns with some lighter, “free-range” aphoristic musings,
together creating a whole that is indeed greater than the sum of the parts. It’s
a feast you’ll want to taste slowly and return to more than once.
When you close these pages, you will be saturated with insight and inspi-
ration. But hold onto this one larger point. You and I, no matter where on
Earth you live, happen to live in an epic moment, the dawn of a new era! We
truly are at the dawn, as the old paradigm struggles to hold on. It feels and is
chaotic. That’s the nature of such epic change. How it unfolds is unknowable.
This is of course unsettling and can make us feel powerless.
But here’s something profound to contemplate. Our latest scientific under-
standing of quantum entanglement and nonlocality (as best I can understand
these concepts), are now accepted science with the award of the 2022 Nobel
Prize in physics. Everything is connected, entangled. The implications are
stunning and exciting for us all. Whatever we do, or don’t do, or even set
our attention to, will affect the outcome. We have agency more than we can
imagine, even as we feel helpless to control events, even if we will never see or
know the direct impact of our actions. We matter.
I resisted making this change in era claim for years, not wanting to inflate
the importance of our brief time here on Earth in the long sweep of history.
But there is no exaggerating either the reality or the stakes. Not since the shift
from the Medieval Era to the Modern Era has Western culture undergone such
profound and disorienting change. Yet this time, with a global population sixteen
times larger than it was five centuries ago, interconnected and interdependent

FOREWORD | xxiii
not only because of our human communication networks and global supply
chains. Now, for the first time, humanity’s future is interdependent with the
evolution of the biosphere whose complex cycles enable all life and whose
healthy function we are undermining with maniacal abandon. Climate change
is but a symptom of this suicidal reality.
This interdependence with all life of our technology driven human project
is a consequence of the human appropriation of 25-40% of Net Primary Pro-
ductivity (HANPP), the measure of the entire planet’s biological production.
Humans have commandeered it for our use as if it had no limits and no con-
nection to our own survival. This ghastly infringement on essential biodiversity
leads to what scientists now call the 6th great extinction. The last one was
caused by a meteorite that wiped out the dinosaurs. We need look no further
than our system of industrial agriculture, fishery and forestry management,
and our ever-expanding urbanization to understand the predicament facing
humanity. Modernity, it turns out, despite all its noble intentions, aspirations,
and extraordinary progress, is undermining the conditions essential for all
life to continue flourishing—including ourselves.
No one can say it better than Wendell Berry. “There are no unsacred places.
There are only sacred places and desecrated places.” We are desecrating Gaia
because there’s a profit in it. As a result, we face two choices. We will transform
reactively because of collapse. Or we will transform proactively through a shift
in consciousness powerful enough to change our ways.
The choices we will make and the outcome of this change in era is unknow-
able. But a new dark age is clearly in sight if we simply keep doing what we are
doing. Yet profound new possibilities are also in store should we rise to meet
the moment. The insights and examples in this book are a beautiful affirmation
that we are indeed rising to meet this moment. Some are calling this period of
human history a New Renaissance, although this time global and reconnecting
with our many ancient wisdom traditions Western cultures have long ignored
to our collective detriment. It’s exciting to ponder, promising emergence into
an entirely new stage of the human story. In fact, I’d say it’s a New Renaissance
and a next Scientific Revolution packaged into one.
The Italian Renaissance followed the Black Death that devastated medieval
Europe between 1348 and 1350. Florence’s population was nearly halved in
one year, wreaking unimaginable terror, but also shifting the economic power
of the working class that survived. In the wake of this horror, Renaissance,
meaning “rebirth,” represented a revival of classical learning, and the embrace
of a new humanism, the arts and sciences, and geographical exploration. The
Renaissance would then usher in the scientific revolution, a direct rejection
of the dogma of the Roman Catholic Church and its corruption. The Modern
Era was born. The West would be the home of unprecedented progress based

xxiv | OUR BIGGEST DEAL
on extraordinary discoveries in science, godlike technological advances, and
the rise of industrial capitalism. But of course, the Modern Era also had its
shadow of colonialism, slavery, and the extractive othering of all life.
The progress of modernity was built on a Newtonian or mechanistic under-
standing of reality, referred to metaphorically as the “clockwork universe.” As
complexity scientist Stu Kauffman likes to say, Sir Issac Newton literally taught
us (in the West) how to think. For the most part, we continue to believe we
live in a materialist, Newtonian world, inclusive of neoclassical economics, the
theory by which we manage the global economy and international relations.
At the heart of the economics discipline is the absurd assumption that expo-
nential growth can go on forever on a finite planet, in direct conflict with the
laws (not theories) of physics. Taylorism, the so called “scientific management”
theory by which we run most of our business enterprises, is also built on a
Newtonian foundation. Enterprises can be optimized and managed by “key
performance indicators.” These are the ideas of the machine, not the under-
standing of living organisms.
Using the method of reductionism, we learned to break complex wholes
down into parts, believing that understanding the parts would give us a better
understanding of the whole. As a result, our academies are broken down into
specialist disciplines and our governing bodies are broken down into specialist
ministries. What we call the “scientific method” is in fact largely this same
reductionist method. Despite the truly extraordinary progress the scientific
method has delivered, from the invention of microchips to rocket ships, we
also know intuitively and from experience that the whole is far greater than
the sum of the parts, and this is no small detail. I’d say it describes reality for
pretty much everything that matters most, from the mysterious to the sacred.
Agronomist and Right Livelihood Award winner Wes Jackson puts it this way,
“There’s nothing wrong with the reductionist method, so long as we don’t con-
fuse the method for how the world actually works.”
To be more concrete, we confuse the complicated—things we make—for
the complex—things we manage. We make bridges and computers. We make
buildings and artificial intelligence models. We manage the complexity of
our health and our families. We manage the complexity of a company or the
economy, a nation and the United Nations. With modernity’s perfection of the
reductionist method and our left-brain dominant mode of analytical problems
solving, we are now very good at the complicated. Yet with our same left brain,
competitive, goals driven approach, lacking integration with our more intuitive
and creative right brain capabilities of seeing the whole, we often fail in our
attempts at managing complexity. In fact, we lack the ability to even discern
between the complicated and the complex.
As a result of this fatal error and now pressing up against planetary

FOREWORD | xxv
boundaries, we find ourselves in the early 21st century navigating what we
now call the polycrisis, the interconnected political, economic, social, and
ecological crises seemingly spinning out of control. This is a crisis of complex-
ity, and our general ignorance about it. This of course is the unprecedented
context for this book.
To dig yet even deeper, let us use the term meta-crisis, referring to a singular
underlying root cause of the multitude of crises that comprise the polycrisis.
That root cause is what’s known as the myth of separation which we can
trace to the Enlightenment, which in turn was enabled by the Renaissance as
well. The separation of us from each other in our embrace of individualism,
and the separation of humanity from the non-human world are both direct
consequences of Enlightenment thinkers, most notably Rene Descartes and
his belief in the separation of the mind and the body. “I think therefore I am”
implies the mind is the true self. Descartes saw the body as nothing more than a
complex machine, operating according to physical and mechanical laws, relying
on his interpretation of Newton no doubt (Newton’s full understanding ran
deeper). Descartes’s views on nature are reflected in this quote attributed to
him, “The conquest of nature is to be achieved through number and measure”
again reflecting his mechanistic worldview, the superiority of the human, and
the separation of man from nature.
The New Renaissance will be fundamentally different. Global in scale, it will
be marked by a cultural shift beyond the limits of materialism and the reduction-
ist method of perceiving reality. We will leave our clockwork universe behind,
and embrace a holistic metaphor of interconnected and interdependent living
networks, the web of life, as a more accurate, evidence-based understanding of
reality. This understanding of reality is already here. It’s the next evolutionary
path in our ever complexifying level of development. But the people running
the world don’t get their jobs by questioning the old paradigm. For the most
part, they remain dangerously tucked away in a modern-day Plato’s cave.
This New Renaissance too is rejecting dogma, but this time the dogma of
the “Church of Economics” (Newtonian based neoclassical economics) and
its emissary the finance algorithm that keeps the global economy locked in
collapse mode. It rejects the rise of hyper competitive techno-feudalism, per-
haps the ultimate expression of the reductionist logic of the machine with its
dystopian vision of hackable humans under the control of their algorithms.
And of course, it too rejects the rampant corruption associated with the rise
of authoritarianism around the world. This New Renaissance honors the
interdependence and the unity in diversity of all, grounded in evidenced based
science that remarkably aligns with our many ancient wisdom traditions. It
reflects a rebirth of humanism, but this time not with humans at the center,
above nature seeking to dominate it.

xxvi | OUR BIGGEST DEAL
Instead, it celebrates with great joy humanity participating creatively, and
if we are wise, constructively in the regenerative process that describes how
all life works. The diversity of human cultures, each empowered to participate
through their unique and extraordinary essence in the ongoing evolution of life
itself. This includes life within Gaia, but remarkably according to the leading
edge of cosmology, life across the entire Uni-verse—meaning literally one
song, fourteen billion years long! What better inspiration (literally to “breath
in spirit”) could give our lives fresh and desperately needed meaning? What
nobler purpose could exist for the human project? To play our unique and
vital part as likely the highest expression of consciousness among all species,
and to participate in the evolution of the Universe! It takes my breath away.
And yet . . .
We find ourselves confronted with unprecedented division, fear, and jus-
tifiable anger. We appear to be lurching backwards when we know we are
failing and must move forward faster. The hour feels increasingly dark. To
understand our predicament, I will refer to the great Bulgarian sage Beinsa
Douno (Peter Deunov, 1864-1944) whose ideas the ever-thoughtful David
Lorimer introduced me to in his book, The New Renaissance (2010). Douno
writes, “Money and power continue to be venerated as if the course of your
life depended upon it. In the future, all will be subjugated to Love and all will
serve it. But it is through suffering and difficulties that the consciousness of
man will be awakened.”
Deunov describes the Four Degrees of human culture, a simplified antecedent
to spiral dynamics for those familiar with that framework. Lorimar presents
the Four Degrees that correspond to the evolution of consciousness as follows:
1. Violence—representing force, domination and power
2. Law—imposed through external control, threats, and manipulation
3. Justice—which is universal and excludes privilege
4. Love—as life for the Whole, where Love is both embodied and
applied.
It would seem to me that American culture, with all its influence on the world,
has been struggling between the second and third degrees in the post war era,
between Law and Justice. Yet increasingly we find ourselves sliding backwards
toward the violence of force, domination and power with the exponential rise
in power of the world’s leading multinational corporations and institutions of
finance. The 2008 financial crash was an act of violence. Facebook’s algorithms
are an act of violence. But, of course there’s more.
For years using soft and hard power, the U.S. government has leveraged its
status as the world’s hegemonic superpower in world affairs. What has changed

FOREWORD | xxvii
in 2025 is there is no longer any pretense. We’re now witnessing the force of
domination in the name of America First, breaking all norms of behavior and
using force to usurp the rule of law in a purely transactional world where
might makes right. It’s undeniable that this trajectory is in motion. It has
spread around the globe to varying degrees affecting institutions of governance,
finance, business, law, media, journalism, and education. Just when a more
holistic understanding and a more collaborative feminine energy is called for,
we see an explosion of toxic masculinity.
Recall, the Italian Renaissance burst onto the scene out of the ashes of the
Black Death. In my hopeful moments, which I cling to, I see this slip downwards
as the death of the old reductionist paradigm no longer fit for purpose. Think
of it like as the wind up necessary to punch through Deunov’s universal yet
tentative Third-Degree cry for justice, evidenced by Gandhi, Mandella, King,
and more recently, the Black Lives Matter and climate justice movements.
These cries have proven to be illusive, or at least the long arc of justice demands
more patience than we can bare.
Make no mistake, we are on a knife’s edge as Bucky Fuller foresaw a half
century ago. I’m hopeful we are now finally in the wind-up, the necessary step
back in order to build unstoppable momentum, like a pitcher’s wind-up on the
mound to deliver a crushing fastball. Our question now is this: can we use this
pain, this chaos, to break through into the Fourth Degree of consciousness,
to Love. Can we return to an embrace of the Whole where we began. In this
place, violence on our health, violence on each other, and violence on Gaia will
be all but unthinkable, no different than self-harm. Instead, we will take our
rightful place participating as only we can in the magical and evolutionary
process of regeneration, in what Buckminster Fuller described as our Regen-
erative Universe!
Since the economy is the water in which our culture now swims, I’m
convinced that the road to regeneration begins with Regenerative Economics,
manifested out of the consciousness of love, and built on the patterns and first
principles of living systems and not the machine. Regenerative Economics is
not about a new set of goals or new key performance indicators. Rather, it is
about humbly aligning with life, creating conditions conducive to life, and
removing obstacles to the natural course of life we all intuit deep down inside.
Critically, it promises currently unseen potential as the source of our future
prosperity, but that’s a story for another day.
My friends, we are in a battle for human consciousness. Our work is not
only to understand the deep historical roots of this battle, but to do the real-
time restorative work of reclaiming our language—getting a grip on words
like “wealth,” “aristocracy,” and even “winning,” as this book does—and, most
importantly, to lean in to the hopeful possibilities available to us, connecting

xxviii | OUR BIGGEST DEAL
and collaborating in the rich context of nature’s deep intelligence and the group
genius of heart-centered human beings devoted to our shared future. We each
have a role to play, beginning within ourselves, our intentions, and our actions.
We are each invited to evolve into and embody the supererogatory leadership
of the emergent Earth steward aristocracy that Perry calls us to.
This is the context of the hopeful book that awaits you.
Be inspired, find your agency, and enjoy the historic metamorphosis that
awaits us all!
John Fullerton
Capital Institute
Stonington, Connecticut
June 2025

INTRODUCTION
T
his book is written specifically for entrepreneurs, executives, financiers,
philanthropists, influencers, and community leaders—people motivated
to make change and have impact for the greater good of our shared world and
future. Hopefully you count yourself among this extraordinary group, or you’re
aspiring to join it.
However, if you are satisfied with the status quo, if the state of the world
seems stable or satisfactory to you, if you don’t believe that we could be
doing better, or that humanity is potentially (and hopefully) experiencing an
evolutionary leap, then this book may challenge some of your assumptions
and beliefs.
If, on the other hand (like so many of my friends and colleagues, and so
many of the leaders and visionaries featured in this book), you know deep
down that we could indeed be doing better—much better—and that we’re
potentially going through a profound transformation much like the caterpillar
in its chrysalis before the magnificent butterfly emerges, this book is written
for you, to further equip you as a powerful participant and change-agent in
this evolutionary journey.
I, for one, am convinced of the latter, and I’m equally convinced that we
need you—especially right now.
For humanity is locked in a titanic struggle between two clashing world-
views, two clashing “realities.”
From a certain perspective, it is no exaggeration to say that we are facing
the darkest, most ominous threat we have ever faced as a people.
Many of us can feel it—can you?
1

2 | OUR BIGGEST DEAL
In the face of this threat, it is as if we’re each being asked, deep inside: “What
kind of world do we really want?”
Is this the best we can do?
Popular epic fantasies by JRR Tolkien, George Lucas, Frank Herbert, and
James Cameron, although fiction on their face, resonate with us broadly as they
reflect back and speak to us of a deep truth emerging from the liminal realms
of our collective unconscious. The great struggle between darkness and light
in Lord of the Rings, Star Wars, Dune, and Avatar isn’t mere fantasy. The great
struggle between darkness and light is real, and it’s playing out within each of
us and all around our world . . . right now, and every moment of every single day.
Ignorance, indifference, inaction, and avarice are mainstay “real-time” tools
of the darkness—to be sure. But so are legacy aspects of our economic and
financial systems and constructs. Curiously, although money and economics
are barely visible in the Lord of the Rings and Star Wars fantasies, they are
actually the very real and preponderant instruments of dark forces in our
world. Too many of us are unknowingly in the cold, firm grip of these forces
and haven’t yet freed ourselves of their shackles, let alone transmuted them
into powerful forces for good in the world.
Isn’t there something deep inside us that knows things could be different?
Couldn’t we be doing much better—for ourselves and each other—and couldn’t
we in fact be much, much happier and healthier and whole? Couldn’t our chil-
dren’s futures be pregnant with the promise of peace and prosperity: stability,
opportunity, and abundance? Couldn’t the living fabric of our communities
and ecosystems be robust and thriving, stout and generative and magnificent
in their vitality? Couldn’t our children be safer, our elders healthier and more
comfortable, our parents less stressed, and our environments pristine?
This titanic struggle isn’t playing out on some other planet, in a galaxy far,
far away. It is happening right here, right now on planet Earth; specifically in
our global “marketplace of ideas”—a competition between two fundamentally
different and irreconcilable stories, two fundamentally different versions of
the human spirit and our shared human destiny.
One of these stories tells us that amassing money and might is our prime
directive—how we “win.” It tells us that winning matters most, regardless of
the costs, and that profit and power are weapons to wield at will as we ward
off our fears and indulge our whims.
The other story is profoundly different. It tells us that caring for the common
good is our main mission, that creatively coexisting in collaborative com-
munities while stewarding ecosystems is the source of true wealth, and that
“winning” is tantamount to planetary-scale peace, plenty, and prosperity—for
our entire human family and our whole living world.
The first story twists people terribly—fueled by self-centered fantasy,

InTRODUCTIOn | 3
adolescent amorality, delusional deception, cynical “certainty,” grotesque greed,
magical thinking, and, above all else, subtle but severe self-hatred. Whipping
the masses into masochistic madness, this sad story necessarily devolves into
dystopian darkness where fascism follows. And fascism isn’t good for anybody—
it is ugly, stupid, and destructive. This is a stark characterization, I understand.
But the great tragedy for so many of us—decent and in the “middle”—is that
without the clear conviction of a higher calling to the greater good, we’re too
easily seduced by supposed shades of gray: A lack of black and white ethical
clarity in our political economy leads to widespread indifference and inaction,
then disaster and devastation.
But there is another way.
The second story speaks of an illuminated pathway paved by consciousness
and compassion, intelligence and love—love for the good, the beautiful, the
just, and the wise. Love for each other. Love for ourselves. Love for life itself
and all the sublime creatures woven together in a tapestry of interdependent
relationship here on our sacred spaceship—planet Earth. And, of course, love
for her—for Earth—our one and only Mama Gaia.
This titanic struggle has been underway for lifetimes. Ever since the first city-
state walls were erected and nearby forests felled in sacrifice to the machinery
of political economy, leaving deserts and despoliation in their wake, human
destiny has hung in the balance.
But now things are different.
The scope and scale—and impact—of our human enterprise on planet
Earth has reached a new degree of epic proportion. We’re at the tipping point.
Although we have the knowledge, resources, and capacity to bring balance
back to our world, business as usual has us careening off a cliff.
Raging wildfires and fierce floods are stark reminders of a destabilized atmo-
sphere: climate chaos cares not about political faction, religious belief, or bank
account—everyone is in danger. Incomprehensible complexity in global financial
systems and artificial intelligence, tectonic geopolitical turbulence, cynically
sadistic militarism, and deteriorating communities are evident everywhere, as
our individual quality of life and internal coherence also erode—all converging
in a multifaceted crisis like nothing our species has ever encountered before.
A polycrisis.
Many crises at once, multivalent and interconnected in an extraordinarily
complex set of dependencies and feedback loops.
Acute complexity. Confusion. Uncertainty. Cognitive dissonance.
These times aren’t only characterized by extreme instability in external
systems and macro-dynamics. We’re hurting inside, too. Anxious, stressed, and
depressed, so many of us suffer mental health maladies endemic to modernity.
As a people, we are not well.

4 | OUR BIGGEST DEAL
The polycrisis pervades the planet, and the polycrisis penetrates deep inside
each of us.
What are we to do?
How do we break through and break free?
How do we exit this existential crisis and secure a soft landing in a milieu of
benevolence and betterment, meritocracy and meaning, wisdom and kindness,
decency and well-being?
How do we escape the polycrisis and progress along pathways to planetary
prosperity?
This is our biggest question.
It has been asked through the ages by legendary luminaries and modern
menschen alike.
And it is being asked—and answered—by thousands of courageous heroes
throughout the world right now today. Heroes who are holding fast to humanity’s
highest ideals. Realizing the secrets of true wealth—regenerative stewardship
and service to the greater good—a new aristocracy, deep leadership by the best,
is arising around the world, eyes wide open and guiding us by an expanding
egregor of global goodness.
Chances are you won’t hear very much about this in the daily news just
yet, or in the political echo chambers. Although it may not be obvious to the
casual observer, there is a profound transformation underway and at scale
in our world, led by an extraordinary global webwork of courageous servant
leaders, humanitarians, and ethically rooted, magnanimous change-makers.
This new Earth steward aristocracy is a fellowship of founders, funders,
family offices, and fearless leaders foregoing the superficial mirage of simple
self-interest and, through mycelial tendrils of trust, fostering a favorable
future through social enterprise, impact investing, stewardship philanthropy,
and service leadership.
Akin to a worldwide fellowship of Jedis, Fremen, and Na’vi, this new Earth
steward aristocracy is actually very real, very powerful, and growing by the
day—it is legion. However, instead of “rings of power,” this fellowship is activated
and strengthened by powerful interconnected “rings” of relationship—myce-
lia-like networks of kinship, community, and collaboration; a Fellowship for
the Greater Good.
And we are each invited to play a vital role in it . . . if we so choose.
And in this context, none of us is exempt: We each have a choice to make . . .
A. VERY. IMPORTANT. CHOICE.
Through 33 years of work and research, I have been fortunate to befriend
and collaborate with so many among us who have chosen to serve the greater
good, and I have been struck by their determined devotion and strength of spirit.
Indeed, in the great struggle between these two stories that stand opposed

InTRODUCTIOn | 5
in stark contrast to one another, these leaders are heroes of the first order,
having chosen service over selfishness, courage over carelessness, and—ulti-
mately—light over darkness. I have experienced firsthand their wisdom and
insight, work ethic and inspiration, and I am humbled and honored to share
some of their courageous and compassionate genius with you in the collection
of essays, executive-summary style case study “vignettes,” and other content
assembled before you.
But this book is about more than a few select voices—much, much more. It
contains blueprints for a renewed world. Blueprints of true wealth and plan-
etary prosperity that the new Earth steward aristocracy accesses on its own
accord, by virtue of Virtue and by sourcing from Source; blueprints of true
wealth and planetary prosperity anchored in a timeless wisdom that has been
with us and accessible all along.
As Executive Director of the Y on Earth Community, the action-oriented
educational nonprofit organization that I co-founded with my dear friend
and brother Brad “Lights Out” Lidge, I have the privilege of hosting our Y on
Earth Community Podcast series and curating our VIP Enclave Gatherings.
In our podcast series, we’ve already interviewed over 170 leaders from around
the world (authors, economists, entrepreneurs, executives, financiers, philan-
thropists, scientists, technologists, venture capitalists, regenerative farmers,
artists, herbalists, holistic healers, naturalists, youth activists, and indigenous
wisdom keepers), and through our VIP Enclave Gatherings, we’ve convened
scores of wealth-holders from funds, foundations, and family offices, as well
as leaders of immediately fundable projects, both for-profit and philanthropic.
They are all progenitors of planetary prosperity, and members of a growing
global network for good. Their work and wisdom permeate these pages, and
we invite you to explore the additional “trailheads” in the Y on Earth Com-
munity Podcast, VIP Enclave Gatherings, and other programs and offerings
of our growing global network.
In the pages that follow, I have deliberately curated a collection of essays
from some of the world’s most inspiring and impactful leaders. This book
is a treasure trove, and there’s no way I could have written and delivered all
of it to you singlehandedly. Indeed, the reality of our polycrisis requires not
aggrandized heroic individualism, but emergent group genius and webwork
wisdom. Our challenges and opportunities are too gargantuan for any single
individual, and our greatest hope lies within the network intelligence of the
woven web of collaboration for the common good (a cardinal truth in the
higher-order ecological, systems, and spiritual sciences). Diverse and dedicated,
these authors represent a wide range of geographic, cultural, socio-economic,
and professional backgrounds, as well as a very wide range of ages: from ear-
ly-career entrepreneurs in their 20s and 30s to late-career giants in their 70s,

6 | OUR BIGGEST DEAL
80s, and 90s—the eldest of whom is a Holocaust survivor and an extraordinary
author and visionary.
And, the Case Study Vignettes feature 33 of the most compelling corpo-
rate, finance, and organizational way-showers exemplifying the world’s most
advanced social, environmental, and economic performance while embodying
the ethics of a new era. In addition to the 33 firms selected for executive sum-
mary style overviews, there are many more listed at the end of that section to
provide you additional trailheads for exploration, edification, and inspiration.
To top all of that off, you’ll find in section four a collection of my “aphoristic
(a)musings” that, although apparently at times whimsical, zany, and even flip,
are sincere inquiries into some of the most subtle, serious, strange, and mys-
teriously surreal aspects of the themes and topics woven throughout the book.
And, rounding out this colossal resource, the fifth section provides you
snapshot summaries of our global community’s most important frameworks
and best practices recommendations for both individual/family and company/
community action-taking.
This book is my eighth book overall, and the third major pillar of my writ-
ings. The first, Y on Earth, a seminal nonfiction tome foundational to our Y
on Earth Community nonprofit’s work, is a comprehensive exploration of the
interconnectedness and virtuous feedback loops between personal practices
for enhanced health and well-being and global strategies for stewardship,
regeneration, and sustainability. The second, Viriditas, a visionary eco-thriller
narrative story featuring the genius computer scientist Brigitte Sophia (and
the luminous wisdom of the ancient von Übergarten family), weaves together
an action-packed tapestry of technology, esoterica, indigenous wisdom, bio-
dynamic land and water alchemy, and a transmission from the higher-order
intelligence of Mama Gaia to humanity following an extraordinary activation
of the planet’s living mycelia webwork cum massively parallel neural net.
Y on Earth and Viriditas have woven into them understanding from my
decades of academic, independent, and multidisciplinary studies, as well as
decades of professional experience through consulting and C-suite executive
leadership in the energy, food, agriculture, education, technology, and social
impact sectors. Perhaps more importantly, those two tomes are infused with
some of the wisdom I have encountered and gleaned through a variety of
indigenous, folk, and initiatic spiritual traditions from around the world. I
encourage you to read these other two books, too, for a comprehensive yet
approachable deep-dive into the most salient issues of our lifetime (within the
narrative of Viriditas are mentioned hundreds of additional resources, and
the same is true of the expository content in Y on Earth, which also has an
extensive bibliography at the end).
This third book now before you, Our Biggest Deal, is the economic,

InTRODUCTIOn | 7
regenerative finance, and social enterprise pillar among the triad—for indeed,
whether seen from a spiritual or an ethical, an aesthetic or a pragmatic lens,
transforming the economy is our most pressing mission.
The economy is the mission.
All else can be seen as secondary.
Or, as in the case of the urgent and essential transmutation and evolution of
human consciousness, any other way we might language and frame our most
pressing mission can be seen as part and parcel of the transformation of our
economy, coexisting in a thematic mobius strip in which there’s no beginning
or end: the transformation of our economy and the transmutation of human
consciousness are one and the same, and each is both causal to and indicatively
and directionally symptomatic of successfully realizing the other.
The stewardship and restoration discipline known as Permaculture (artic-
ulated by Bill Mollison, who synthesized all manner of indigenous and folk
practices) makes a distinction between “visible” and “invisible” structures. The
visible are the material: soils, gardens, homes, farms, cities, forests, oceans,
and the like. The invisible, on the other hand, are those cultural, economic,
financial, moral, and psychological systems and constructs that, while not as
tangible as the trees in the forest, clearly create unmistakable impacts on our
shared material reality. Economics is par excellence an amalgam of “invisible”
constructs that have very real impacts upon us and our living world.
While very many of us are directly (and laudably) engaged in the work of
stewardship and regeneration of our visible systems and structures through
myriad advanced modalities (clean energy, green building, ecosystem restoration,
environmental detoxification, biodynamic agriculture, and both afforesta-
tion and reforestation, for example), more and more of us are arriving at the
understanding that transforming the invisible systems and structures of our
economy is core—essential—to the mission of planetary prosperity.
Our economy is our mission.
And as the etymological history tells us, our word “economy” comes from
the ancient Greek oikos—meaning home, hearth, and community—implying
something much more tangible and immediate indeed: rootedness, relationship,
and reciprocity in the context of human-scale environs, kinship, and community.
Economy is essentially the aggregate of our life-ways and home-tendings,
now at the planetary scale of the entire Earth.
Economy is our mission, indeed!
Capital, properly stewarded and deployed for the greater good, is our mission.
Community is our mission.
Our home—Mama Gaia—is our mission, and planetary prosperity is our
primary objective in this mission.
And we are deploying—en masse.

8 | OUR BIGGEST DEAL
Together, we are developing and deploying the structures, strategies, and
systems for sustainable stewardship and widespread well-being.
By understanding and cultivating true wealth and forging the fellowship
of the new Earth steward aristocracy, we are proclaiming the story of love,
intelligence, and compassion—all rooted in the ethical foundation of stew-
ardship and responsibility.
And, we are scaling all of this up around the world—by the billions.
This is our biggest deal, the deal of our lifetimes: generating and guiding
each other along pathways to planetary prosperity, rooted in love, kindness,
and higher order intelligence, and fulfilling the promise of humanity’s evolu-
tionary destiny.
By evolving, like caterpillars into butterflies, we’re autopoeitically activating
ourselves as imaginal cells within our great living world, forming an indestruc-
tible webwork anchored in resilient nodes of group genius and diverse, mixed
tables of family, friendship, and fellowship—gathering around one great round
table of planetary prosperity.
And you’re invited to this table—there’s a seat reserved here just for you.
Because our world needs you.
We need you.
Will you join us?
Aaron William Perry
Lyons, Colorado
Summer Solstice, 2025

“All we require is the will. The next few decades represent a final
opportunity to build a stable home for ourselves and restore the rich,
healthy and wonderful world that we inherited from our distant
ancestors. Our future on the planet, the only place as far as we
know where life of any kind exists, is at stake.”
—Sir David Attenborough
1 OUR BIGGEST QUESTIOn
From Polycrisis to Planetary Prosperity?
H
ere’s the question:
Is planetary prosperity possible?
Can we achieve widespread well-being, economic sanity, and ecological
stability all at once?
Can we supersede the industrial era of the Anthropocene and evolve into
the meta-industrial era of the Ecocene?
This is the question of our time, the biggest question we humans can pos-
sibly ask right now.
Sure, there may be some spiritual, astrophysical, or even quantum mor-
phogenic field questions that we might consider to be “big ones” as well. But
to what end do their answers and insights lead us? Wouldn’t the fundamental
issue of planetary prosperity remain most important at the conclusion of those
inquiries? Loving kindness, deep humility, self-transcendence, and compassion-
ate stewardship in action and at scale in our shared immanent reality—this
is most important. Humanity’s wisest, most luminous leaders and spiritual
teachers are unequivocal on this essential point. Although often mystical and
metaphysical in their sourced experiences, they are decidedly ethical, pragmatic,
and focused on the immanent in their teachings: love, kindness, and courage
11

12 | STRUCTURES AnD STRATEGIES FOR PLAnETARY PROSPERITY
of heart are preeminent as is the healing and integration of mind, body, and
spirit requisite to fully activate them.
It’s really rather straightforward, isn’t it?
But, for our more hardened, skeptical friends, whose jaded cognitive bias
might preclude the only hopeful answer (and, in terms of the autopoietic Pyg-
malion effect, the only “correct” answer) to the question of whether planetary
prosperity is possible, there is a corollary with implications of equal import:
Can we do better?
Can’t we at least do a little better?
Can we do better as a people, a human family, a species?
Can’t we do a lot better?
Can we combine the power of community, the power of compassion, and
the power of capital to restore our world, evolve our consciousness, orient our
economy around enfranchisement and the common good instead of corrupt
crony capital concentration, avoid catastrophic destruction, avert autocracy
and fascism, and uplift the human family into a shared reality of planetary
prosperity? Can we slow down the eroding flows of “fast money” and the fre-
netic, high-amplitude signal noise of ever-accelerating technological cacophony,
just as we slow down rushing waters in our restored landscapes—transmuting
such flows from destructive to nourishing and life-giving forces for good? Can
we simultaneously mobilize philanthropy—love of all humanity—and bio-
philia—love of all life—at scale, such that it’s normalized as foundational to
the economic, ecological, and cultural lifeways of our planetary civilization?
Can we examine and evolve our socially constructed mental models of world
and self and truth and good and desirable and possible?

OUR BIGGEST QUESTIOn | 13
Yes!
Of course we can do better!
There’s absolutely no certain proof that we cannot, and any decent, unjaded
person, whether gazing through a lens of pragmatism, morality, or aesthetics,
would have to arrive at the same conclusion.
“But,” we might ask, “isn’t planetary prosperity a matter of degree?”
Sure, it is! And we will discover that the degree to which we achieve plan-
etary prosperity is in fact a function of the degree to which each of us does
our part to make it so—each of us choosing to join the ranks of deep leaders
and the new Earth steward aristocracy, offering to the greater good in these
unprecedented times whatever time, treasure, and talent you can muster.
Now, whether we can fully realize planetary prosperity—our biggest ques-
tion—is, of course, not answerable at this time.
The future holds that answer . . . and it is an outcome dependent in part
upon the answer to this specific question:
Will you do your part?
That is the biggest question . . . for you . . . now.
Will you do your part?
Will you do all that you can—in terms of your unique constellation of
available time, treasure, and talent that can be put to work—now—for the
greater good?
That question only you can answer.
Despite such uncertainty, the most noble, most courageous, most honorific
leaders living on planet Earth at this time, obscure and distinguished alike,
are answering this question with “YES!”—and are committing their lives to
achieving planetary prosperity.
These leaders are coalescing in a fellowship for our future, and a true aris-
tocracy—the very best indeed.
And our ranks are swelling as more and more among us are hearing the
clarion call and answering with a resounding “YES!” YES, we can and YES, I
will do my unique part to ensure our greatest likelihood of success!
When we get down to it, our biggest question isn’t actually whether plane-
tary prosperity is possible; it’s whether you’re choosing to make it so. Whether
you’re going to do your part, whether you’re leaning in and stepping up and
doubling down despite whatever uncertainty or skepticism might otherwise
arise in resistance, proclaiming YES! for our world.
You’ve been asked. The question is posed. The door is open to you.
What will it be, my friend?
Will you do your part?

“Let us ask not what the world can do for us
but what we can do for the world.”
—Lily Sophia von Übergarten
2 OUR BIGGEST DEAL
The Great Work Before Us
T
he polycrisis makes our great work necessary, non-trivial, and urgent.
The external aspects of this polycrisis are evident and obvious: Destruc-
tive fires, huge hurricanes, and furious floods are ravaging our communities
with increased frequency and severity as our dangerously destabilized global
climate system randomly devastates families, neighborhoods, and whole
regions; technology’s ever-accelerating upgrades are getting way out of hand,
likely beyond containment in the case of AI and quantum computing; social
media has blasted deep fissures of hatred, estrangement, pillory, and vitriol into
our communities; cognitive performance and independent, critical thinking
capabilities have rapidly declined as industrialized food production, a deluge of
pharmaceuticals, mind-erasing mass media, and an illiteracy crisis take their
toll; violence and warfare are destroying lives on virtually every continent;
and financially extracting from all of these terrible (but highly “profitable”)
circumstances, a cynical economic super-elite is concentrating capital and
amassing astronomically obscene fortunes at unprecedented, accelerating
rates as the rest of us stagnate, all while aggrandized autocratic demagogues
are consolidating political power.
Indeed, daily headlines barrage us with these obvious external symptoms
of the polycrisis.
However, the deeper, more subtle internal aspects of the polycrisis are not as
overtly obvious—though they are at once causal and symptomatic. Throughout
the world, there is a force that has insidiously infiltrated our hearts and minds
and is relentlessly rotting us from the inside out—a force with many names,
14

OUR BIGGEST DEAL | 15
including the Cree term Wetiko, written about by both Jack Forbes and Paul
Levy. Normalized notions of “achievement” and “success,” and a widespread
absence of true humility, conceal the corrosive cynicism and systemic selfish-
ness predominating the global economic regime and modern cultural milieu.
While a small portion of us “succeed” according to mainstream metrics,1 the
vast majority of us have no chance of doing so, according to simple math.
Although often appearing with a polished veneer of luxury and refinement, the
dark forces of emptiness, avarice, and indifference have become ubiquitous in
their reach, and normalized and institutionalized as not only acceptable but
desirable—the very essence of “winning.”
But, with this sort of “winning” we all lose in the end. At the beginning, in
the middle, and in the end. We not only lose vis-à-vis the many complex and
interconnected external risks we’re facing, we lose in terms of our internal
beingness, humanity, and fundamental quality of life—not just as measured
by conventional metrics, but as experienced. As we will see in the chapters and
essays below, true winning—true wealth—requires deep humility, self-tran-
scendence, and compassionate connectivity in community.
As we awaken to true wealth and true winning, we’ll see that so much is
at stake.
Everything is at stake: Our world, our lives, and the lives of our children and
grandchildren are perilously close to catastrophic destabilization and discord.
As Kate Raworth has so poignantly articulated in Doughnut Economics, we
must consider the “social foundation” and the “ecological ceiling,” understanding
our complex global economy to be nested within (and profoundly affecting) the
limits of planetary carrying capacity (notwithstanding the counter-Malthusian
optimism around technological advances). In her circular ring graph, Raworth
helps us to visualize the highest-priority vectors for securing both social and
ecological stability, avoiding the otherwise looming specters of tragic (social)
shortfall and devastating (ecological) overshoot. She has laid out “what” we
need to do, and we must double down on the “how” at this critical juncture.
In this context, there is nothing more important than stabilizing our
climate, reversing biodiversity loss and habitat destruction, establishing an
ethics-centered society, securing enfranchisement and economic security for
all, protecting our homes and cities, making our communities more resilient,
and normalizing kindness, decency, creativity, and cooperation as the most
competitively advantageous modalities of economic endeavor.
In other words, historically and anthropologically speaking, our great work
is about liberating our minds and hearts and imaginations as we liberate and
heal our world.
1 https://www.fastcompany.com/91234667/how-much-annual-income-financial-success

16 | STRUCTURES AnD STRATEGIES FOR PLAnETARY PROSPERITY
Our great work—our biggest deal—is about healing and restoring our inner
lives as well as our ecological, cultural, and economic systems and the ways in
which they interact with one another. Thankfully, this healing and restoration
work is already being done by millions of heroic people all around the planet.
From family and community scale action to larger institutional scale impact,
millions of us are working across the three pillars of culture, economy, and
ecology—cultivating, discovering, and guiding us along emergent pathways
to planetary prosperity.
How do we join this global movement?
How do we do this great work?
How do we hone our crafts and craft anew a world of wisdom, strength,
and beauty, together?
How do we rediscover humanity’s original instructions and heal and restore
all of our relations?
While some of this great work is quantifiable (and the numbers, as discussed
below, are already so impressive), much of it is subtle and qualitative in nature.
Sacred ceremonial land stewardship, family and community trauma healing,
justice and dignity restoration, and our personal, intimate relationships with
the natural world are all aspects of this great work. And millions of us have
already responded to the call to summon the courage and enter into this sub-
lime inner work of healing and outer work of restoration.
Thousands of people are already leading the way, millions of us are already
involved, and billions of dollars are already deployed—and I’d say (as many of
the trends indicate) we’re really just getting started.
And this global symphony of deep and emergent systems-change-making
for the greater good is being further amplified and strengthened through
the “mycelial model effect” of exceptionally robust, decentralized, and hyper-
connected change-makers (individuals, community groups, and ethically
centered corporations alike) collaborating across a variety of scales, sectors,
and intersections of common purpose.
Through a growing global network of mission-driven businesses, certified
benefits corporations, employee-owned companies, cooperative enterprises,
family offices, and cultural, social, and environmental nonprofits, the global
movement for planetary prosperity is scaling up rapidly and substantially,
amply resourced by a burgeoning regenerative finance movement, and is
linking together in a woven, worldwide webwork of interdependent mutualism,
resource sharing, restoration, and reciprocity—anchored in the living roots of
love: philanthropy, biophilia, and agape alike.
What are the implications?
Imagine a world in which banking benefits all of us, social media spreads kind-
ness and good news, telecommunication networks connect us for collaboration,

OUR BIGGEST DEAL | 17
payment processing systems provide resources for restoration, and our lives are
abundantly filled with clean, nutritious food grown by fairly funded farmers,
as we refresh ourselves with pristine waters and are surrounded by a calm,
stable, life-force filled atmosphere, while we cultivate a planetary culture
in local, regional, and global networks and community cohorts. Imagine a
world where “normal” is soaking up birdsong and vistas of flower-filled green
landscapes—not the industrial wastelands and vitriol with which our beings
are daily assaulted.
Thankfully, all of this is already happening, although you won’t see much
of it in the fear-inducing news headlines or corrosive social media messaging.
The global networks for goodness are nascent and growing, but not quite
yet as widespread as they will soon be—you have to seek them out like mycelia
hiding in the fertile soils of the forest.
We stand at an inflection point, however, which will make all of this ubiq-
uitous in short order . . . depending on our choices from this day forward.
It’s already underway.
Indeed, with remarkable foresight, sophistication, and courage, leaders are
establishing and scaling solutions (while collaborating across diverse networks
and sectors), families are capitalizing on the layered benefits of sound investing
combined with inspired benevolence (while hedging against potential wealth-
destroying catastrophic unpriced market risks), and communities are cohering
around three great “common good” pillars of economic, environmental, and
social stewardship at the global scale.
This movement is catalyzing a phenomenal transformation of our econo-
mies, our communities, and our hearts. It is an “inside-out job” rooted in the
evolutionary quest of the individual, woven together with the supreme univer-
sal calling to serve the greater good in collaboration with others also serving
according to an ancient and essential code of ethics. It is a movement in which
group work and group genius are prioritized over individual heroism. It is a
movement toward an immanent planetary epoch—the Ecocene—in which our
social, cultural, and economic systems are guided by Quintenary* stewardship,
and humanity accesses the next-level intelligence of the Noosphere, which
Chardin anticipated a century ago: an emerging planetary consciousness of
the highest order, that transcends the “tragedy of the commons” of myopic
self-interest—the “moloch trap” of zero-sum thinking—and attains what Maslow
himself came to recognize as the pinnacle of human achievement: dedicating
one’s gifts and talents maximally in service to the greater good.
Across thousands of firms and family offices, and millions of households,
humanity is mobilizing the greatest economic and evolutionary feat in our
species’ history. This movement can be measured in billions (if not trillions)
of transactions, but is rooted in an immeasurable expansion of the heart. In

18 | STRUCTURES AnD STRATEGIES FOR PLAnETARY PROSPERITY
this growing movement, coherence, compassion, and wisdom are the main
currencies flowing through our globally connected society as we design and
deploy better systems and structures for our economies and communities.
This movement is emerging and proliferating throughout the world, not
controlled by any central authority but instead inspired and led by the authentic
intelligence and genuine goodwill pervasive throughout our global community—
rooted in a humanistic Weltanschauung that reveres and celebrates the inherent
dignity of all people and sanctity of all Earthly creation. And evolving beyond
mere goodwill, this movement has the power of the fundamental will to
good as its source and substance, and the power of conscious capital, market
mechanisms, and tremendous technologies at its disposal and direction—guided
by people who have carefully crafted and polished their hearts and minds in
the alchemical crucible of personal growth and evolution—as predicted and
prescribed by humanity’s greatest luminaries and sacred prophecies.
In this rarified and essential context, the mechanisms otherwise constructed
to contain, control, and coerce are our responsibility to transmute—like lead
into gold—and transform toward true freedom, well-being, and planetary
prosperity. Our movement is already well underway throughout the entire
world doing that critical alchemical work.
Just as the existential challenges we face make up a polycrisis in the aggregate,
so too does our great work have many forms and facets. Regenerative finance,
stewardship philanthropy, and quintenary Ecocene economics are the new,
saner mechanisms for capital deployment. Social and impact entrepreneur-
ship and service leadership are the saner methods for guiding our projects,
communities, and companies toward planetary prosperity.
The good (great!) news is that our great work is already well underway. Here
are some specific, notable examples:
Through the Global Alliance for Banking on Values, over 70 banking insti-
tutions worldwide employ over 145,000 employees working day-in and day-out
allocating capital to land stewardship, clean energy, ecosystem restoration, and
community-based projects in over 45 countries, earning over $265 billion in
annual revenue. Among their constituent members, long-established stalwarts
like GLS Bank in Germany and Amalgamated Bank in the United States, and
much newer and rapidly growing firms like Climate First Bank (the fastest
growing new bank in the US), are moving the needle toward stewardship and
sustainability through ethics-based finance every day.
All the while thousands of future-forward family offices, funds, and foun-
dations are deploying capital into myriad projects and platforms devoted to
the greater good. Their leaders—often next-generation capital stewards with
eyes open to the world’s most serious challenges and systems-change oppor-
tunities—are prioritizing the mid- and long-term sustainability of our world

OUR BIGGEST DEAL | 19
over narrow-minded, short-term profiteering. The trends indicate orders of
magnitude more of this to come in the next two decades as some $84 trillion
will change hands as Gen X, Gen Y (Millennials), and Gen Z inherit $72 trillion
and the balance ($12 trillion) transfer directly to charities.
Meanwhile, meta-networks of mission-driven companies, organizations,
and communities are catalyzing philanthropic and community-led impact
throughout the planet. Among these, 1% for the Planet, one of Patagonia
founder Yvon Chouinard’s great legacy contributions, has over 7,000 mem-
ber companies of all sizes channeling at least 1% of their top-line gross sales
toward over 4,000 environmental and community nonprofit organizations.
With over $500 million already achieved in certified giving, and a near-term
goal of over $1 billion, the 1% for the Planet ecosystem continues to scale its
reach, scope, and impact.
Of course, this isn’t only about the money. With a comprehensive measure-
ment and verification framework, B-Lab has certified over 8,250 companies
with the best-in-class B-certification credential that signifies a comprehen-
sive commitment to social, economic, and environmental sustainability. In
their Declaration of Interdependence, the global community of thousands
of B-Certified companies envisions “a global economy that uses business as a
force for good. This economy is comprised of a new type of corporation—the
Benefits-Corporation (B-Corp)—which is purpose driven and creates benefit
for all stakeholders, not just shareholders.” To date, B-Corporations generate
over $130 billion in annual gross revenue.
Among the largest of the 1% for the Planet and B-Corporation leaders, Pata-
gonia is a trailblazer in planetary prosperity structures, strategies, and impact.
At the direction of founder and former majority shareholder Yvon Chouinard,
Patagonia transferred 99% of its common stock into a trust called the Holdfast
Collective, which is charged with the altruistic requirement to distribute the
company’s approximately $100 million annual net operating profit to environ-
mental and social nonprofit companies around the world. Instead of swelling
his personal coffers and family fortune, Chouinard epitomized the behavior of
the new Ecocene aristocracy by transcending his apparent personal interests
and instead maximizing the positive impact he is able to muster for the greater
good—a laudable legacy of the highest degree.
In addition to all of this, in order to further mitigate extreme capital
concentration and augment multi-stakeholder benefits, many other corporate
forms are being deployed and scaling up, including cooperative and employee-
owned models.
According to the National Center for Employee Ownership, there are over
6,350 companies worldwide with employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs),
representing over $1.8 trillion in total asset value. Among these, grocery chains,

20 | STRUCTURES AnD STRATEGIES FOR PLAnETARY PROSPERITY
construction companies, architecture and engineering firms, manufacturing
companies, real estate firms, and banks are comprised of hundreds of thou-
sands of employee-owners.
Meanwhile, the International Cooperative Alliance indicates that there
are three million cooperatives worldwide, employing 10% of the global work-
force—10%! The three hundred largest cooperatives generate over $2.4 trillion
in annual sales. Among these, the Mondragon Cooperative system in the
Basque country of northern Spain is especially notable, as it is comprised of
over 90 autonomous, interdependent co-ops ranging from grocery retail to
engineering and consulting, with over 80,000 worker-owner members and a
combined annual revenue of €13.9 billion—equivalent to $14.5 billion!
And, according to the World Association of Non-Governmental Organiza-
tions (WANGO), there are over 54,000 social and environmental nonprofits
operating in 190-plus countries. Over 31,000 of these are headquartered in the
United States alone, employing over 145,000 people, earning over $29 billion
in revenue, and managing over $79 billion in assets.
And as the positive feedback loops of multi-stakeholder capital formation,
allocation, and accumulation coalesce, and are combined with increased
innovation, impact, and influence, all while the powerful forces of compet-
itive advantage and market demand continue to amplify best practices, we
are witnessing the transformation of our culture, economy, and society. The
directional trends have just attained critical mass in the first quarter of the
21st century, and, notwithstanding the tremendous headwinds and temporary
(but serious) political backlash we obviously face, they are continuing to scale
up, simultaneously delivering greater impact and greater hope to millions of
people worldwide.
In the book’s Case Study “Vignettes,” you will find carefully curated sum-
mary information about exemplary companies and organizations utilizing
the structures and strategies described above. And, in the book’s collection
of essays, you will find the reflections and insights of several selected leaders
whose intrepid, altruistic, and visionary works are guiding our organizations
and meta-networks of organizations toward planetary prosperity in which
real wealth is engendered, stewarded, and shared among all stakeholders, and
the subtler, more essential true-wealth rewards of belonging, service, and
soul-fulfillment are achieved.
In the pages that follow, you will also find deeper dive discussions of com-
petitive advantage and market demand in the context of the Ecocene; the power
of stewardship philanthropy; the many structures and strategies for planetary
prosperity already operating at scale around the world; the spiritual imperative
of economic and financial systems change; the exciting avant-garde of inspired
innovation—especially in the realms of mycelial-model, stewardship-oriented